Now that we have set up our first project, we
will now start drawing. So the first thing we
need to do is create the canvas, so that we can
draw on something. what we do here is, we use
the "createCanvas" command. The "createCanvas"
command allows us to create the drawing canvas.
the "createCanvas" command takes two parameters.
The "width" and the "height" of our canvas.
The first parameter is the width the second is
the height. If i change the width for example
to 600 pixels and save it, we can immediately
see that the width of our canvas has changed.
There is one additional advice here. Many of you
might be working on a high pixel density displays,
like a retina display. In this case p5.js
automatically detects the pixel density and
increases the size of your canvas. The idea
is here that the graphics you draw always
look super crisp and nice on a high resolution
display, but if you're trying to export later
on something that needs to have an exact pixel
width and height, this is counter-productive.
What we can do is to achieve this, we can
simply define the pixel density ourself,
for example if we want something as an
output that has exactly 600 times 400 pixels.
We can just say "pixelDensity" one
and with if we save this now you,
might not see an immediate change, but
this graphic is now actually 600 times 400,
independent of what the actual
pixel density of your device is.
The last thing: the default mode in which p5.js
creates graphics for us as raster or pixel-based
graphics, but maybe you're interested in a
vector graphic as an output. What you need
to do then is write SVG as a third parameter, to
our createCanvas function. Again you will probably
not see a difference in the beginning, but now
you have the option to export an SVG graphic.
I will later on in another video get
into details what the exact differences
between the two renderers are and
what you need to pay attention to